Alrighty, so we're almost done.
(chuckles)
We're at our final two steps here,
steps four and five of enhancing the CartStatusComponents
to subscribe to the service,
and also updating our CartStatusComponent HTML
to display the cart total price and quantity.
Woof, almost there, almost there.
Alright, let's move back into our IDE.
Let me clean up some of the windows here.
And now let's move over
to our cart-status.component.ts file.
Let me expand my window here for a second.
And what I'll do for this component
is I'll create two properties for the total price
and also for the total quantity.
And then in this CartStatusComponent,
I'm going to inject the CartService.
And then in my ngOnInit method,
I'll call this.updateCartStatus.
It's a helper method that I'll create here in a second.
And in this method will actually subscribe for the events
on the CartService.
Alrighty, so let's move in here and write the code.
So, this.cartservice.totalPrice.subscribe.
And then we'll receive an event from this subscription,
we'll make the assignment so the data comes in,
and I'll have this.totalPrice equals data.
And then I'll do a similar thing here
for a cart totalQuantity.
So .subscribe.
And again, when an event comes in,
this data will assign it to our property,
this.totalQuantity equals data.
Alright, so again, when new events are received,
we make the assignments to update the UI for total price,
and also total quantity.
Okay, so with Step five, we're going to update
the CartStatusComponent HTML to display
the cart total price and quantity.
And so we'll actually reference these properties here
from our CartStatusComponent.
We'll reference the total price and the total quantity.
Now let's go ahead and open up
our cart-status.component.html.
And so remember earlier we had the hard coded data.
So now we'll actually get data
from those component properties.
So I make use of total price,
send it to the currency pipe.
And then I'll do a similar thing here for total quantity.
And so again, it's reading these properties here
from our CartStatusComponent.
So any changes or updates
via this whole event driven approach,
will update these items dynamically in our UI.
Alright, I'm anxious.
I'm excited.
Let's test it.
So my app is already running.
And let's swing into our browser.
And yes, so first off, notice here cart is empty.
So price of zero, quantity is zero.
Yes, awesome.
Now let's go ahead and add something to the cart.
So this crash course in python 1499.
One item, yes, awesome.
And we can verify that by looking at our console logs
at the bottom.
Let's also add another book here for a Guru in JavaScript.
So that's the total price, total quantity.
Now let's add another Python book again, okay.
(chuckles)
So notice here the price increases, and also the quantity.
And again, the logs here shows the output,
we're adding X number of books in there
cause we really, really love Python.
And so now we have those shopping carts status updated.
We can add some items for mugs,
mouse pads, and so on.
So we can play around with this as much as we'd like.
And we can see here that our shopping cart status component
is updating dynamically on the fly.
Based on all of our coding, so, whoo,
I'm really really happy with the way this
is coming together.
And I think you should be happy also.
So I like to say good job.